Well we are now ready to move into the texturing phase now that we've got basic light set up here you
may notice that when rendering this out with the rendered viewport shading that you get a lot of these
little fireflies in the render they're little white dots all over the place.
Those I think maybe caused by kind of excessive reflectivity here on the Mac.
And we can come in and turn down the reflectivity but that's not always going to do the trick.
So I'm going to come over here to the render panel and if I scroll down underneath the light paths section
is a couple of settings for cost caustic and caustic are the light patterns that are created when light
goes through a refractive material like glass or something like that.
And they can also be caused by reflections as well but I'm not going to turn these off and let blender
really render this and you'll see hopefully that those little fireflies are pretty much gone and we
don't really need Kostic in this scene.
We only use those if we were doing maybe a close up of a glass of tea with ice cubes or something like
that for a scene like this.
We don't really need them at all.
So just clicking those couple of things can really clean up your scene.
All right.
So let's move on to texturing.
What I'm going to be doing is using an image manipulation program called Gimp and it too is free to
download free to use in any way.
So it's a really great companion to Blender.
It's been around a while and it's really been developed over time to be a good solid program.
Now there are two main ways that I'm going to be applying textures to our object in the scene.
One going to apply the texture directly in blender and then adjust how many times the texture repeats
over the object and the other is that I'm going to export the U-V maps of objects out to Gimp and then
paint over or lay images over those U-V maps them.
Once I've done that I'm going to bring that image texture that color map back into blender and apply
it there.
So anyway let's take a look at this.
So first of all I think what I'm going to do is work on this kaufen all zoom into it here.
And let's take a look at this.
Now if you recall this is a U-V map.
This just a lot of different pieces a lot of different islands broken up.
Let's take a look at it in the U-V texture editor here.
So if I hit the tab key Heres the movie map.
So it is just a big explosion of polygons or U-V islands.
So what lets do instead is actually bring a texture into here so let's go from here to Gamp.
So this is Gamp.
It's an image manipulation program a paint program.
It's really useful as I said as a companion to Blendr when doing things like texturing.
If yours looks a little different than mine does here is probably because the first thing I did when
I opened it was I went to Windows and I chose single window mode.
Otherwise Gamp opens up in a lot of modular windows that you have to kind of move around.
I like it on one screen.
So for the texture of that coffin let me show you what I've found so far and I got a file open and I've
got a folder called Images here in my project folder and in here I've stored a couple of things I've
found on the Internet.
So this sandstone If I open that I'm going to press the minus key on the keyboard to kind of zoom out.
So here is that texture.
Now one of the things I'm going to want to do is repeat this texture several times over the U-V map.
And if I repeated it the way it is now I would get visible seams between the tiles of the texture.
So what I need to do is make this seamless or as seamless as possible so that when it repeats we don't
see the seams between the tiles.
And then one of many things I like about Gimp is that it has a feature to make this seamless.
Built right in.
So I can come up here to filter's map and make seamless and if I click that and then it will think for
a while and it will actually go through and re calculate the image to make the edges seamless.
And there we go.
So now I can save this or export this out as a seamless texture.
So I'll go a file export as.
And in this one I'm going to call.
I'm going to put this in my textures folder and I will call this sandstone seamless and click export.
So now that I've done that let's go back to Blendr and apply the texture.
All right now that we're back in Blender Let's go ahead and apply that texture.
Notice this has a material on it called blocks and stairs.
And if you recall I set up this material for both the coffin and the stairs in the scene.
So keep that in mind as we move forward here.
I want to just show you what happens when this when we have a material assigned to two different objects.
All right so the first thing I'm going to do is I want to bring in a texture coordinate node to do that
I'm going to come over here to add good input and going to choose texture coordinate and that gives
us this node.
Here let me make this just a little bigger here.
And then we want to also bring in our texture so I can go to add again.
But as you see here the shortcut is shift a.
So I'll press shift a and I'm going to go to texture and image texture.
Now I've got this image texture that I'm going to want to apply based on the UVA's of my object.
The U-V map down here I'm going to want to bring the color of the texture in and apply the color to
the object and I'll open this and go find that texture.
So in my textures folder here I'll choose that sandstones seamless and open that.
Now you can see over here click tab that that texture has been applied to my object.
But I think it looks a little bit too big.
I'd like the texture to be a little smaller on the object.
So what we can do is repeat the texture multiple times.
So I'm going to go back to my default view here.
And I'll go to texture viewport shading.
Let's go over to our materials.
We can see that the material is this blocks and stairs and we have an image texture coming into our
material.
But if I go over to the texture panel over here I can see under the image texture selection.
Now if I click this you can see you've got brush brush mask an image texture.
If yours happens to be on brush go ahead and switch it over to Image texture.
And right down here we've got mapping.
And if we increase the scale of the mapping we can increase the number of times that it repeats over
the texture.
So if I click and drag over these three fields and maybe type in three and hit enter you can see that
it gets smaller the texture gets smaller on the object.
Well let's try to
yeah maybe something like that.
Now you can also increase the scale of one access or another so let's say I wanted to increase the scale
in the X I can maybe take this and type in five and it would stretch it.
Or maybe I wanted to decrease the scale I could type in one and it would do that.
So you can scale it in a non-uniform way depending on how much you want to do.
So I'll go back to there.
All right.
So that is really our texture for the coffin.
Let's go take a look at the stairs and see what happened to it as well.
You can see over here that our stairs now have that same texture on it.
That's because remember we had the same material on those two objects.
And I don't know if you recall I said that textures are assigned to materials and materials are applied
to objects.
So if two objects have the same material then whatever texture we apply to that material will also be
applied to those multiple objects.
So I actually want to be able to adjust the scale for this independently of the other object.
So what I'm going to do with this object selected I'm going to add a new material slot click new to
add a new material to it.
And for this I'll call this stairs.
Now this one here I'll go ahead and rename because it needs to be just called blocks or maybe I could
call it coffin.
Why don't I do that.
And now I'm going to remove it from this object.
Now it's still going to be on that other object.
But I'm going to remove it from here.
Now with the stairs material I'll go back to the U-V editing and lay out isolate this one just so we
can see it once again I'll press shift a bring in a texture coordinate node press shift a bring in an
image texture and I'll hook these up.
So the Uvas into the image texture the color into the diffuse Chaytor and I'll pull down this little
menu and choose sandstones seamless.
And there we go.
Now I have independent control of it using this texture panel image texture mapping.
Now I can adjust this independently of the other objects so I'm going to take this up to four maybe
so it's a little bit smaller on the object maybe even five here.
And in addition I can see some repeats happening here kind of at an angle.
What I can do is I can adjust this say rotate it in the z and it will rotate that texture.
And I'm going to try and rotate it so it isn't quite as obvious.
Something like that.
So those lines of the textures go along the stairway instead of cutting through them at an angle.
And so now the repeats aren't quite as visible because they're part of the structure of the object.
So you have quite a bit of control here and the mapping for both scale and rotation.